WiCS+Europe at ESCOP2025, Sheffield, United Kingdom

Tuesday, 2 September 2025 13:30-16:30 (BST) as part of the ESCOP2025 satellite events
Location: Diamond Lecture Theatre 7
Creating inclusive and safe academic spaces:
Celebrating 25 years of Women in Cognitive Science & looking ahead

Panel discussion | 13:30-15:00 (BST)

Women in Cognitive Science (WiCS) was founded in 2001, envisioned to support the professional development of young scholars in cognitive science. The need for WiCS arose from the historical underrepresentation of women in scientific environments, the necessity to reduce gender stereotypes and biases, and the goal to improve the visibility of both junior and senior women scientists. Significant advances have been made towards reducing gender inequalities over the last 25 years. Yet, many challenges remain, with recent global events reminding us that social change may not follow a linear path and cannot be taken for granted. This panel will look back at the foundation of WiCS and its trajectory, reflecting on what we have learned to inform how we can go forward in Widening Inclusivity in Cognitive Science (WiCS+), fostering a movement towards greater inclusivity, visibility, and professional growth for everyone in academia. The panel will be followed by an open discussion with the audience. Come join us in this conversation and share your own reflections, lessons learned from the past, suggestions for the future, and help us think together how best to navigate these changing times.

All gender identities are welcome, and we look forward to your participation in this discussion.

Speakers

    Judith F. Kroll, University of California, Irvine, USA and Co-founder of Women in Cognitive Science

    Nura Sidarus, Royal Holloway University of London, UK and WiCS+Europe Leadership Team

WiCS+E chairs

    María J. Maraver, University of Granada, Spain

    Marta Rivera Zurita, University of Balearic Islands, Spain

Speed mentoring & coffee break | 15:00-16:30 (BST)

As part of the event, we invite you to participate in the WiCS+E Speed Mentoring session, which includes a coffee reception and offers junior researchers the opportunity to connect with senior faculty to discuss various aspects of research and academic careers. Based on sign-ups, participants will be matched with one or two mentors for brief, focused conversations designed to be both meaningful and productive. The goal is to foster in-depth discussions while also encouraging connections with individuals from diverse roles and backgrounds.

WiCS speed mentoring has been successfully held at major international meetings such as the Psychonomic Society, SARMAC, APS, ICPS, and ESCOP. Please note a few ground rules: 

    This is a one-time session (i.e., the mentor is not committing to a longer-term mentoring relationship).

    The mentee should come prepared with one or two specific questions to guide the session and make the most of it.

    The mentee should send their CV and questions to the mentor ahead of time but should not expect the mentor to have reviewed this information prior to the meeting.

    The information shared during the session is to be kept completely confidential.

This session is open to scientists of all gender identities, and both mentors and mentees from past sessions have found it highly valuable.
